{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf820
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Basic Info 
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 Genome Size: 5,227,294 bp (10,454,588 if we include 3\'92-5\'92) Given Query Size 100\uc0\u8232 Chosen Seed Size: 23\u8232 Nodes for 5\'92-3\'92: 62,311,380. 
\fs24 \

\fs26\fsmilli13333 Estimated trie size: 3.25 GB Max recurrences of Seeds: 13 
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf2 Basic Idea 
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 This is fundamentally a BLAST algorithm that is going to be forced to be exhaustive. It will take a genome (G) and break it down into seeds of size 23 (explanation for seed size is below). It then creates a prefix trie from the seeds - recording the location in the genome for each seed in the trie. The routine then executes each query as follows: 
\fs24 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl300\sa266\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	1.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Initialize a bitarray that is G \uc0\u8722  23 + 1 long. \u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	2.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Break query into seeds of size 23 \uc0\u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	3.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Search trie with seeds. If seed is in trie, flip the bits in the bit array associated with the seed locations. \uc0\u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	4.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
When all query seeds have been checked against the trie, examine a moving total (of the same length as number of seeds in query) of the bitarray. \uc0\u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	5.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Check location with largest total using Smith-Waterman. Keep alignment is it has 3 or less SNPs (single nucleotide polymorphisms). \uc0\u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	6.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
If no alignment found in previous step, decrease moving total by one and repeat last step. Stop when moving total less than or equal to 9 (See discussion below about exhaustive criteria). \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf2 Exhaustiveness 
\fs24 \
}